<TEI xmlns:tei="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0">
  <teiHeader><fileDesc>
      <titleStmt>
        <title>Email at Oxford today</title>
        <author>Sebastian Rahtz</author>
      </titleStmt>
      <editionStmt>
        <edition>
          <date>July 2003</date>
        </edition>
      </editionStmt>
      <publicationStmt><authority>webmaster@oucs.ox.ac.uk</authority><date when="2009-08-01"/></publicationStmt>
      <sourceDesc>
        <p>Created from scratch by Sebastian Rahtz, <date>November 14th 2000</date>. Later edited by
          Ylva (<date>Aug 2009</date>)</p>
      </sourceDesc>
    </fileDesc></teiHeader>
  <text>
    <body>
      <p>Email in Oxford is part of the <ref target="../nexus">Nexus service</ref>, run by the
        University Computing Services (OUCS). Nexus gives you access to a number of services in
        addition to email, such as calendars, address book and the option of sharing information
        with other Nexus users. </p>
      <!-- <p>All new members of the University are automatically given an Oxford Username and an email
        account once a University card has been issued.
        Details about your account and your
          activation code are sent to your University address (college or department).
          Please allow several days after receiving
          your card for the email account details to reach you. If you haven't received your account
          details and activation code, please contact the <xref url="../helpcentre/">OUCS help
          centre</xref>. 
      </p>-->
      <p>This document offers information about email at Oxford in general. The <ref target="../nexus/">Nexus pages</ref> offer specific information about the Nexus service,
        such as set-up and configuration details.</p>
      <!-- New text here below -->
      <!-- <p>Once you have your Oxford account details, go to
        https://register.oucs.ox.ac.uk/self/user_info?display=mailin to find your mail address.
        Oxford Nexus offers an easy-to-use, fully featured web-based email service which is
        accessible from web browsers anywhere on the Internet. Email clients such as Outlook,
        Outlook Express, MacMail and Mozilla Thunderbird are also easily configured to work with
        Oxford Nexus. Email Client Configuration pages have details for popular email clients.
        Please note: Oxford Nexus only accepts secure connections from email clients. Please follow
        our client configuration instructions to make sure that you connect to Oxford Nexus
        securely. Failure to do so will mean you cannot access your Oxford Nexus email account. Some
        University departments run their own internal mail servers which they may require their
        members to use. Departmental IT staff will advise you about such systems. </p> 
      <list>
        <head>You can access your Nexus email</head>
        <item><xref url="../nexus/web/">directly on the web</xref> using a web browser (such as
          Internet Explorer or Firefox); </item>
        <item>using a <xref url="../nexus/email/clients.xml">program installed on your computer</xref>
          (such as Outlook or Thunderbird); </item>
        <item>on a <xref url="../nexus/mobile/">mobile device</xref> (currently unsupported but some
          information is available)</item>
      </list>
      -->
      <div xml:id="newusers">
        <head>Getting started</head>
        <p>
          <hi>New University members</hi>
          <lb/>All new members of the University are automatically given an Oxford Username and an
          email account once a University card has been issued. Details about the Oxford account
          (which is also known as the Single Sign-On account or SSO) are sent to your University
          address (college or department). Please allow several days after receiving your card for
          the email account details to reach you. If you haven't received your account details and
          activation code, please contact the <ref target="../helpcentre/">OUCS help centre</ref>. </p>
        <p>Before you can start using your Oxford account you need to activate it. Go to the <ref target="https://webauth.ox.ac.uk/">Webauth page</ref> and enter your activation code which
          you will find in the letter with your account details.</p>
        <p>The SSO account is not only used for email but is also the means by which you get access
          to a range of Oxford services (see the <ref target="/webauth/oxfordusername.xml">Oxford
            username page</ref> for details).</p>
        <p>
          <hi>Access your email</hi>
          <lb/>You can access your Oxford email in different ways; directly online or via a program
          (client) installed on your computer (or mobile device). Users of Microsoft clients (such
          as Outlook or Entourage) get access other features in addition to email (such as calendar,
          address book, to-do lists). If you choose to use an email client, you have to set it up.
          More information about Nexus email, including configuration details for a series of
          clients, are available on the <ref target="../../nexus/email/">Nexus email</ref> page. <list>
            <item><ref target="../nexus/web/">Nexus directly on the web</ref> using a web browser
              (such as Internet Explorer or Firefox); </item>
            <item><ref target="../nexus/email/clients.xml">Nexus using a program installed on your
                computer</ref> (configuration information for programs such as Outlook, Entourage
              and Thunderbird); </item>
            <item><ref target="../nexus/mobile/">Nexus on a mobile device</ref></item>
          </list></p>
        <p>
          <hi>About Oxford email</hi>
          <lb/>If you are unfamiliar with email, you should read our <ref target="newusers/">New Email
            Users</ref> guide, which will lead you through the steps involved in setting up your
          email account and reading your email. </p>
        <p>If you are already familiar with setting up email clients, here are the facts you need,
          in our <ref target="quickstart/">Experienced Email Users</ref> manual; this should provide
          all the information you need to configure your software at Oxford. </p>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="passwords">
        <head>Passwords</head>
        <p>Use your Single Sign-On (SSO) / Oxford Username and password to access the Oxford email. </p>
        <list type="gloss">
          <label>Change password</label>
          <item>You can change your SSO password on the <ref target="https://webauth.ox.ac.uk/">Webauth</ref> page.</item>
          <label>Forgotten/expired password</label>
          <item>If you have forgotten your SSO password, or it has expired, you can reset it via
              <ref target="https://webauth.ox.ac.uk/">Webauth</ref> provided you have previously set
            up a Webauth security question. <lb/>If you have not set up a security question, or have
            forgotten the answer, you will need to obtain a <emph>Rescue Code</emph> from the <ref target="../helpcentre/">OUCS Help Centre</ref>. Rescue Codes can be issued in person, by
            internal University post to your college/department, or by email to a member of your
            registered <ref target="/welcometoit/about.xml?ID=wit_colleges">local IT support
              staff</ref>
            <emph>on request from them</emph>.</item>
          <label>More password information</label>
          <item>See <ref target="../registration/index.xml?ID=passwords">Changing passwords</ref> for
            more information about passwords.</item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <!--<div id="nexus">
        <head>Using Nexus email</head>
        <p><hi>Ways to access Nexus</hi><lb/>You can access your Nexus email either directly online,
          using the Nexus Outlook Web Access interface, or via a special program ('client')
          installed on your computer or mobile device. If you use the online interface or a
          Microsoft client, you will also be able to see your calendar, use the shared address book
          and other Nexus features.</p>
        <p>Different email programs have different functions, so what you can do and how you do it
          depends on what program you are using. Functions you will find in most programs include
          adding a signature to your outgoing messages (text that is automatically inserted to the
          bottom of messages you send, usually your contact details), automatically moving messages
          into specific mail folders, filtering out junk mail/spam, and setting an 'out-of-office'
          message. <list>
            <item>More information about how to use Nexus online: <xref url="../nexus/web/index.xml"
                >Accessing Oxford Nexus via the web</xref> page.</item>
            <item>Information about different email clients (including how to configure them for
              Nexus): <xref url="../nexus/email/clients.xml">Accessing Nexus via your email program</xref> page.</item>
          </list></p>
        <p><hi>Account settings</hi><lb/>Use the Nexus account settings page <xref
            url="https://register.oucs.ox.ac.uk/self/nexus"
            >https://register.oucs.ox.ac.uk/self/nexus</xref> to:<list>
            <item>Set spam filter level - choose between Off, Low, Medium or High. Messages which
              are tagged as spam are put in the 'Spam' folder, and are automatically deleted after
              90 days.</item>
            <item>Set preferred email address (for users with more than one Oxford address)</item>
            <item>Set email forwarding address - get your Oxford email delivered to another
              account</item>
            <item>Show email usage and quota - see the size of each folder in your Nexus
              mailbox</item>
          </list>
        </p>
        <p><hi>Deleting messages:</hi><lb/>Items will be automatically removed from the
            <Label>Deleted Items</Label> and <Label>Junk E-Mail</Label> folder 90 days after they
          were put there. Of course you may pre-empt this by clearing out those folders deliberately
          before the 90 days are reached and it is even possible that your email program (your
          'client') may be set to do this for you. You can set the level of junk-mail filtering via
          the <Label>Nexus Account Settings</Label>
          <xref url="https://register.oucs.ox.ac.uk/self/nexus"
            >https://register.oucs.ox.ac.uk/self/nexus</xref>. More information about junk mail in
          the section on <ref target="unwanted">Unwanted email</ref>.
        </p>
        <p>If you have deleted a message from the <Label>Deleted Items</Label> folder
          (some people's email programs are set to <Label>Empty Deleted Items on
            exit</Label>), you may still be able to retrieve it. Oxford Nexus keeps item in the
            <Label>Recover Deleted Items</Label> store for a further seven days if you are using
          Outlook or Outlook Web Access Premium (with Internet Explorer). </p>

        <p><hi>Quota</hi><lb/>Everyone who has an account on Nexus has a certain amount of space
          they can use. This is called the quota. It is currently set at 2GB (those few people with
          a quota in excess of 2 GB on the old Herald system keep their previous quota). If all your
          messages are text, this is a lot of space. However, if you receive messages that contain
          graphics or other complicated documents, you may find that you use a lot of your
          quota.</p>
        <p>If you are filling up your quota, you will not be able to receive messages until you have
          cleared enough space. You can check your quota on the <xref
            url="https://register.oucs.ox.ac.uk/self/nexus">Nexus account settings page</xref>.</p>
        <p>More information about quota on the <xref url="quota/">Quota</xref> page.</p>

      </div>-->
      <div xml:id="unwanted">
        <head>Unwanted email (viruses, spam, junk-email)</head>
        <p>We all receive unwanted email, sometimes of an offensive nature. It is very hard to
          totally avoid this, but it can usually be contained to a mere irritation. Most incoming
          mail is scanned in order to tag junk mail, and OUCS recommends <ref target="filter/">applying a filter to screen you from the worst excesses</ref>. </p>
        <p>OUCS will take action against any Oxford user who is identified as having originated or
          passed on junk or chain mail. Serious cases will be referred to the Proctors.</p>
        <list type="gloss">
          <label>Junk, chain and hoax email</label>
          <item>What is it and how can you avoid it? Some general information on our <ref target="junkmail/">junk mail page</ref>. Make sure to <ref target="filter/">activate your
              Nexus spam filter</ref> to reduce the amount of spam you receive.</item>
          <label>Fake emails/phishing</label>
          <item>All email users will almost certainly receive occasional fake emails (also know as
            "phishing") trying to persuade them to provide personal details, passwords, credit card
            numbers etc. by various means such as linking to a fraudulent web site. Read some tips
            about <ref target="fake/">How to Recognise Fake Emails</ref>. Often <ref target="headers/">Viewing the Full Email Headers</ref> can provide clues about the authenticity of a
            message and the headers are also required by OUCS if you ask us to investigate a
            message. OUCS particularly encourages users to report <ref target="phishing/">Phishing
              Scams</ref> asking for passwords to <emph>University</emph> systems in order to
            protect other users and the University as a whole.</item>
          <label>Viruses</label>
          <item>Computer viruses are commonly spread by email. Your email is <ref target="scanning/">scanned centrally</ref> to detect viruses and junk mail. Messages containing viruses
            are deleted, and junk mail is tagged so that you can filter it out. Most email clients
            will allow you to set up filters, either to automatically delete unwanted messages, or
            put messages in appropriate folder (see information about your email program for
            details). OUCS maintain a set of detailed web pages about <ref target="/viruses/">Viruses</ref> and how to deal with them.</item>
          <label>Harassment</label>
          <item>Sometimes people may receive offensive mail that is directed to them personally. If
            a user is persistently harassed, or is threatened by email, then there are various
            measure that can be taken to shield them. If you are in this situation, then please
            contact <ref target="../helpcentre/">OUCS Help Centre</ref> (telephone (2)73200), and we
            shall arrange for one of our staff to discuss this with you confidentially. The Proctors
            regard any form of harassment as a serious University offence, and will deal severely
            with cases originating from within the University.</item>
          <label>Secure email</label>
          <item>Email is not a very secure medium. You can protect your privacy by encoding the
            email message before it is sent (using a system such as Pretty Good Privacy, PGP), and
            you can make a secure connection to the mail server (using SSL). PGP and SSL are
            explained in pages about <ref target="secure/">Secure email</ref>. </item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="topics">
        <head>Other Email Topics</head>
        <list type="gloss">
          <label>Addresses</label>
          <item>How do <ref target="oxford/">Oxford Email Addresses</ref> work? We have some notes on
            the local conventions which should clarify matters.</item>
          <label>Contacts/address book</label>
          <item>Many people maintain large and important address books containing email addresses of
            their work and personal contacts. Nexus provides two distinct address books: a global
            Oxford one and a personal address book for each user. For more information, see <ref target="../nexus/contact/">Nexus Contacts</ref>. <lb/> When you first start using Nexus,
            you will probably want to import your address book from your existing email client so
            that you can access all your existing contacts from Nexus. For more information, see
              <ref target="../nexus/contact/">Nexus Contacts</ref> page.</item>
          <label>Mailing Lists</label>
          <item>If you want to have regular email discussions between a group of people, you should
            look at <ref target="maillists/">Mailing Lists</ref>. </item>
          <label>@herald</label>
          <item>The mail system, previous to the current mail system Nexus, was called 'Herald'. To
            ease the migration of accounts to Nexus, email addresses of the form
              <Value>username@herald.ox.ac.uk</Value> were still honoured- though it was never an
            approved form. The following time-table for the wind down of herald-related facilities
            is <list type="ordered">
              <item>Jan 2010: student clubs and societies were assigned an email address of the form
                  <Value>societyname.society@studentclubs.ox.ac.uk </Value>
              </item>
              <item>The stopping of @herald.ox.ac.uk as an email address has slipped and will now be
                terminated with imap.herald configuration on the 30th Nov 2011. </item>
              <item><Value>imap.herald.ox.ac.uk </Value> will be a valid configuration option for
                mail clients until 30th Nov 2011. It is necessary to stop this support in
                preparation for the server upgrade to Exchange 2010. See
                  <ref>http://www.oucs.ox.ac.uk/nexus/email/clients.xml .</ref> for other
                configuration options.</item>
            </list></item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="problems">
        <head>Got problems?</head>
        <list>
          <item>Help with many common email problems is included in the <ref target="faq">Email
              FAQ</ref> (Frequently Asked Questions). </item>
          <item>More information about Nexus can be found on the <ref target="../nexus/">Nexus
              pages</ref>.</item>
          <item>What do you if an email which you have sent comes back to you? There are various
            reasons why this could happen, explained in <ref target="failed/">Failed
            email</ref>.</item>
          <item>If you have set up your email client to store your password away so that you do not
            have to type it in each time you read email, here are some tips on changing <ref target="config/passwords/">Stored Passwords</ref>.</item>
          <item>If you simply cannot get connected to the network at all, we have some more general
            information about <ref target="comms-problems/">General Connection Problems</ref>.
          </item>
        </list>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="nonoucs">
        <head>Non-OUCS email</head>
        <p>A number of units within the University have opted to manage their own email servers. If
          you are eligible to use these services you should contact their support services directly
          for further information. </p>
      </div>
      <div xml:id="finish">
        <head>When you leave</head>
        <p>Once your University card has expired any accounts with OUCS will be deactivated. This
          means that you will not be able access your email account. However, if you have set up
          email forwarding before your card expires, this will generally work for a further two
          months. For students who leave in the summer, your mailbox will be deleted three months’
          later. Those returning in the autumn are advised to double-check that OUCS Registration
          knows that you are returning, and have made preparations to preserve your mailbox data.
          Please see <ref target="/registration/finish/">Finishing at Oxford</ref> for more details. </p>
        <p>The University also provides an Alumni email address for ex-students. For more
          information see: <ref target="/registration/finish/index.xml?ID=alumni">Alumni email
            forwarding service</ref>.</p>
      </div>
    </body>
  </text>
</TEI>